[IMP] iot: add documentation regarding HTTPS certificate (#3818)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/productivity/iot/config/https_certificate_iot.rst

=======================
HTTPS certificate (IoT)
=======================

What is HTTPS ?
---------------

*Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure* (HTTPS) is the secure version of HTTP,
which is the primary protocol used to send data between a web browser and
a website. HTTPS is encrypted in order to increase security of data transfer.

HTTPS uses an encryption protocol to encrypt communications. The protocol is
called Transport Layer Security (TLS), although formerly it was known as
Secure Sockets Layer (SSL).

HTTPS occurs based upon the transmission of TLS/SSL certificates,
which verify that a particular provider is who they say they are.

.. note::

>    In this documentation and Odoo we will use the term "HTTPS certificate"

Author: I don't agree with this one, as it is a bit like "custom" vocabulary in Odoo's context. I think its better to keep this one as it is

   to define the fact that the SSL certificate is valid and allows HTTPS
   connection

Why is it needed ?
------------------

In order to communicate with certain network devices (in particular payment
terminals), the usage of HTTPS is mandatory.
In other words, if you don't have the HTTPS certificate, some
devices won't be able to interact with the IoT-box.

How to have it ?
----------------

The generation of this certificate is automatic.

In practice, the IoT-box will send a specific request to `<https://www.odoo.com>`__
that will send back the certificate if you are eligible

IoT-box eligibility
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

 #. The database should be a **production** instance.
    Not a copy, duplicate, staging or development.

>  #. Your Odoo subscription have an "IoT Box Subscription" line.

Reviewer: Okay, if this is a label in the GUI it should be surrounded by a :guilabel:` ` 

I'll correct this.

    If you are not sure on the matter, contact your sales person or partner

Troubleshoot
------------

If anything in the process of the HTTPS certificate generation or reception

> went wrong, a specific error will code be given on your IoT box homepage.

Reviewer: @lse-odoo - Noted, this is good to know. I will get this changed out on the other docs then.

 .. note::

>     In this state refreshing the IoT-box homepage will force to regenerate

Author: the formulation can be misleading IMHO (as the IoT box is not producing an error for real + we don't mention the HTTPS certificate). I will rephrase it otherwise

>     In this state refreshing the IoT-box homepage will force to regenerate

Reviewer: Sounds good, I'll let you rephrase this. Let me know if you'd like me to re-review.

.. seealso::

   :doc:`connect`

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_NO_CREDENTIAL`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reason:
    The contract and/or database UUID is missing

Solution:
    Make sure that both values are configured as intended.
    To modify them, go to the IoT-box homepage, then to :guilabel:`Credential`

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_REQUEST_EXCEPTION`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reason:
    An unexpected error happened when the IoT-box tried to reach
    `<https://www.odoo.com>`__. The causes are likely related to
    your network infrastructure/configuration:

     - The IoT box does not have access to internet.
     - Your network does not allow the IoT box to communicate with
       `<https://www.odoo.com>`__.
       It might be due to network devices preventing the communication
       ( firewalls, etc. ) or network configuration (VPN, etc.).

    .. warning::
        As this error code depends on the network infrastructure,
        it goes beyond support service scope.
        You can get this type of support
        with a `Success Pack <https://www.odoo.com/pricing-packs>`__.
        Make sure to see this issue with your system administrator or

>         network responsible employee if you have any.

Author: I do agree to remove the pack part. But not the second one as IMHO it is important to make them see this with their network employee if they have any

    .. note::
        If you need more information regarding the error that happened,
        the full request exception details is in the IoT box logs.

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_REQUEST_STATUS`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reason:
    The IoT-box was able to reached `<https://www.odoo.com>`__ but receive
    an unusual
    `response HTTP response status codes
    <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status>`__.

    This error code will also give the HTTP response status codes.
    For example, if you have `ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_REQUEST_STATUS 404`
    it means that the page return a 404, which is the "Page Not Found" code.

Solution:
    Check if `<https://www.odoo.com>`__ is not down using a browser, it might be down
    due to maintenance.

>      - If it is in maintenance, you will have to wait for it to be back

Author: looks a bit odd for me "Odoo.com" 🤔

>      - If it is in maintenance, you will have to wait for it to be back

Reviewer: Actually there should be a menu selection around the Odoo.com. This sounds correct in this instance. I've made edits above

     - If it is not, we invite you to open a
       `support ticket <https://www.odoo.com/help>`__ on the matter. Don't
       forget to mention on it the 3 digits status code next to the code error

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_REQUEST_NO_RESULT`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reason:

>     The IoT-box was able to reached `<https://www.odoo.com>`__ but it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box was able to reached `<https://www.odoo.com>`__ but it
```

>     refused to deliver the HTTPS certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    refused to deliver the :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` certificate.
```

Solution:
    Please make sure that you are eligible: `IoT-box eligibility`_

> How do I know if the HTTPS certificate is correct ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to ensure that the HTTPS certificate is correct
```

---------------------------------------------------

> If the certificate is applied successfully, you will see on your odoo database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the certificate has been applied successfully,
```

a new HTTPS URL for the IoT-box ending with `.odoo-iot.com`.

.. image:: https_certificate_iot/odoo_new_domain.png
   :align: center

> If you browse to this link you should see in your browser that a secured

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When navigating to the :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locator)` in a browser a secured
```

> HTTPS connection was established.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` connection will be established.
```

.. figure:: https_certificate_iot/secured_connection.png
   :align: center

   Padlock in Chrome on Windows 10 attesting the fact that the connection is secured in HTTPS

The IoT-box homepage will also now display an `OK` status next to `HTTPS certificate`.
The :guilabel:`details` button next to it will give information regarding the certificate.

.. image:: https_certificate_iot/status_ok.png
   :align: center

> DNS issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Domain Name System (DNS) issue
```

---------

> If you can access your IoT-box from it's IP address but not its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box can be accessed from it's IP address but not its
```

> `.odoo-iot.com` one. You are likely running into a DNS issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`.odoo-iot.com` one, them the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is likely running into a :abbr:`DNS (Domain Name System)` issue.
```

> On some browsers, it will give an error code mentioning `DNS`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On some browsers, an error code mentioning :abbr:`DNS (Domain Name System)` will appear.
```

(like `DNS_PROBE_FINISHED_NXDOMAIN`).
Such issues look as follows:

.. figure:: https_certificate_iot/dns/dns_chrome.png
   :align: center

   DNS issue on Chrome browser on Windows 10

.. figure:: https_certificate_iot/dns/dns_firefox.png
   :align: center

   DNS issue on Firefox browser on Windows 10

.. figure:: https_certificate_iot/dns/dns_edge.png
   :align: center

   DNS issue on Edge browser on Windows 10

> DNS issue Solution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Domain Name System (DNS) issue solution
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

>  #. If your router allow you to change the DNS manually on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 #. If the router allows for the changing of the DNS manually on it,
```

>     Set it to use `Google DNS <https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    then set it to use `Google DNS <https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns>`__.
```

>  #. If not, then you will have to change the DNS settings on each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 #. If this isn't the case, that the DNS can be changed via the router, then a change will need to be made on the :abbr:`DNS (Domain Name System)` settings of each of the
```

>     devices for `Google DNS <https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns>`__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    devices using `Google DNS <https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns>`__.
```

>     It will have to be done on **every** device that plan to interact with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This will need to occur on **every** device that plans to interact with
```

>     the IoT-box (computer, tablet and phone).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box (ex.: computer, tablet and phone).
```

>     We invite you to check online per device how to modify its DNS setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The individual device configuration processes can be found on the website of the device's manufacturer.
```

>     .. note::
>        Other IoT devices such as payment terminals will likely don't need
>        to change their DNS settings as they are already configured
>        with custom DNS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .. note::
       Other :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` devices such as payment terminals likely won't need
       their :abbr:`DNS (Domain Name System)` settings changed as they are already configured with custom :abbr:`DNS (Domain Name System)`.
```

Do the payment terminals come from the factory with custom DNS or is this achieved during setup?

Author: it depends, but generally it is factory (I think)

> .. warning::
>     As this issue happen due to network infrastructure,
>     it goes beyond support service scope.
>     You can get this type of support
>     with a `Success Pack <https://www.odoo.com/pricing-packs>`__.
>     Make sure to see this issue with your system administrator or
>     network responsible employee if you have any.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. warning::
    As this issue is due to the network infrastructure, it goes beyond support service scope provided by Odoo.
          .. seealso:: 
             :doc:`../../../../services/support/what_can_i_expect`
```

 #. The database should be a **production** instance.
    The database instance should not be a copy, a duplicate, a staging or a development environment.
 #. The Odoo subscription must have an :guilabel:`IoT Box Subscription` line.
    If you are unsure if there is an "IoT Box Subscription" line, contact your Account Manager or
    Partner.

Troubleshooting
===============

If anything goes wrong during the process of the "HTTPS certificate" generation or reception, a
specific error will code be given on your :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page.

 .. tip::
    Accessing the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage will check for the presence of the
    "HTTPS certificate" and will attempt its generation if missing.
    As such, if you have an error on your :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page, you can
    refresh the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` home page to see if the error disappears.

    .. seealso::
        - :ref:`iot/https-certificate`

Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) certificate errors
-------------------------------------------------------------

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_CHECK_NO_SERVER`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reason:

>     The configuration regarding the server is missing.

Author: it's called like this on the IoT box homepage :/ but I will add a reformulated version :)

>     The configuration regarding the server is missing.

Reviewer: Maybe add a screenshot here? Or add to the description, or maybe an example block?

>     The configuration regarding the server is missing.

Author: Note that I mean this thing:
https://www.images.cybrosys.com/blog/Uploads/BlogImage/how-to-configure-iot-box-in-odoo-4.png

Personally for me it is explicit enough with the ..seealso link below. Let me know if you think it would be relevant to add a screenshot with the "configure" button highlighted.

Solution:
    Ensure that the server is configured.

.. seealso::

   :doc:`connect`

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_CHECK_CERT_READ_EXCEPTION`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reason:
    An unhandled error happened when trying to read the existing
    :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` certificate

Solution:
    Ensure that the :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` certificate file is readable.

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_NO_CREDENTIAL`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reason:
    The contract and/or database :abbr:`UUID (Universal Unique Identifier)` is missing.

Solution:
    Ensure that both values are configured as intended.

>     To modify them, go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page, then navigate to

Author: I'm a bit confused, what do you mean by that and what would you expect ? You mean the tabulation ?

>     To modify them, go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page, then navigate to

Reviewer: When you break the line it doesn't do anything when you render the build. To keep good code we should bring line 105 up to 104.

    :guilabel:`Credential`

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_REQUEST_EXCEPTION`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reason:
    An unexpected error happened when the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box tried to reach
    `<https://www.odoo.com>`__. The causes are likely related to the network
    infrastructure/configuration:

     - The :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box does not have access to internet.
     - The network does not allow the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box to communicate with
       `<https://www.odoo.com>`__.

>        This may be due to network devices preventing the communication ( firewalls, etc.) or network

Author: I don't get this point neither, could you be more precise on the matter please ?

>        This may be due to network devices preventing the communication ( firewalls, etc.) or network

Reviewer: Bring line 119 up to line 118

         :align: center

         DNS issue on Edge browser on Windows 10

Domain Name System (DNS) issue solution
---------------------------------------

 #. If the router allows for the changing the DNS manually on it, then set it to use
    `Google DNS <https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns>`__.
 #. If your router don't allow you to do that, then a change will need to be made on the
    :abbr:`DNS (Domain Name System)` settings of each of the devices using
    `Google DNS <https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns>`__. This will need to occur on
    **every** device that plans to interact with the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box (ex.:
    computer, tablet and phone). The individual device configuration processes can be found on the
    website of the device's manufacturer.

    .. note::
        Other :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` devices such as payment terminals likely won't need
        their :abbr:`DNS (Domain Name System)` settings changed as they are already configured with
        custom :abbr:`DNS (Domain Name System)`.

.. warning::
    Consult with your system or network administrator if this issue should arise.

>     As this error code depends on the network infrastructure, it goes beyond support service scope.

Reviewer: Bring line 252 up to line 251

    Protocol Secure)` certificate.

Solution:
    Ensure that the :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` certificate file is readable.

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_NO_CREDENTIAL`
----------------------------------

Reason:
    The contract and/or database :abbr:`UUID (Universal Unique Identifier)` is missing.

Solution:
    Ensure that both values are configured as intended. To modify them, go to the :abbr:`IoT
    (Internet of Things)` box home page, and navigate to :guilabel:`Credential`.

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_REQUEST_EXCEPTION`
--------------------------------------

Reason:
    An unexpected error happened when the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box tried to reach
    `<https://www.odoo.com>`_. The causes are likely due to the network
    infrastructure/configuration:

     - The :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box does not have access to internet.
     - The network does not allow the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box to communicate with
       `<https://www.odoo.com>`_. This may be due to network devices preventing the communication
       (firewalls, etc.) or the network configuration (:abbr:`VPN (Virtual Private Network)`,
       etc.).

    .. note::

>        More information regarding the error that occurred can be found in, the full request
>        exception details which are in the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box logs.

Reviewer 2: Comma placement
```suggestion
       More information regarding the error that occurred can be found in the full request
       exception details, which are in the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box logs.
```

Solution:
    .. warning::
       Consult with your system or network administrator should this issue arise. This error code
       depends on the network infrastructure and goes beyond :doc:`Odoo support's service scope
       </services/support/what_can_i_expect>`.

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_REQUEST_STATUS`
-----------------------------------

Reason:
    The IoT-box was able to reach `<https://www.odoo.com>`_ but received an unusual
    `HTTP response (status codes)
    <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status>`_.

    This error code will also give the HTTP response status codes. For example, if the error reads
    `ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_REQUEST_STATUS 404` it means that the page returned a 404 error, which is
    the "Page Not Found" code.

Solution:

>     Check if `<https://www.odoo.com>`_ is down using a web browser, it's possible that it is down

Reviewer 2: Add a conjunction here.
```suggestion
    Check if `<https://www.odoo.com>`_ is down using a web browser, as it's possible that it is down
```

    due to maintenance.

     - If `<https://www.odoo.com>`_ is down due to maintenance, unfortunately there is nothing that
       can be done but instead wait for it to recover.
     - If `<https://www.odoo.com>`_ is not down due to maintenance, open a `support ticket
       <https://www.odoo.com/help>`_ on the matter. Ensure that the 3 digits status code next to the
       code error is included in the support ticket.

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_REQUEST_NO_RESULT`
--------------------------------------

Reason:
    The :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box was able to reach `<https://www.odoo.com>`_ but it
    refused to deliver the :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` certificate.

Solution:
    Ensure that the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box and database are eligible for a
    certificate: :ref:`Internet of Things (IoT) eligibility <iot/iot-eligibility>`.

How to ensure that the HTTPS certificate is correct
===================================================

If the certificate has been applied successfully, a new :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol
Secure)` :abbr:`URL (Uniform Resource Locator)` for the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box ending

> with `.odoo-iot.com` will appear on the Odoo database.

Reviewer 2: Slightly more context for those who readers who can't load the screenshot
```suggestion
with `.odoo-iot.com` will appear on the Odoo database, inside of the menuselection:`IoT` application
on that specific device's form.
```

:abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box and database are eligible.

Internet of Things (IoT) eligibility
------------------------------------

 #. The database should be a **production** instance.
    The database instance should not be a copy, a duplicate, a staging or a development environment.
 #. The Odoo subscription must:

    - Have an :guilabel:`IoT Box Subscription` line.
    - Be in progress.

    If your subscription is linked to your `<https://www.odoo.com>`__ portal user you can check
    both information by yourself on the portal subscription page.

    .. figure:: https_certificate_iot/sub_example_in_progress.png
        :align: center

        In this case, both subscriptions are considered "in progress" as the
        :guilabel:`Filter By: In Progress` was used

    If you are not sure for any of the points, contact your Account Manager or Partner on the
    matter.

Troubleshooting
===============

If anything goes wrong during the process of the "HTTPS certificate" generation or reception, a
specific error will code be given on your :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page.

 .. tip::

>     Accessing the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage will check for the presence of the
>     "HTTPS certificate" and will attempt its generation if missing.
>     As such, if you have an error on your :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page, you can
>     refresh the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` home page to see if the error disappears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Accessing the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage will check for the presence of the
    "HTTPS certificate" and will attempt its generation if it is missing.
    As such, if there is an error on the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page, 
    refresh the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` home page to see if the error disappears.
```

    .. seealso::
        - :ref:`iot/https-certificate`

> Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) certificate errors

Reviewer: I think we should combine this heading with the previous Troubleshooting. The individual errors aren't bolded and it might be tough to differentiate them apart.

Author: so you mean changing each `~~~~~~~~~~` of the errors to `---------` ?

Reviewer: Yes that is correct and then combine "Troubleshooting" and "Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) certificate errors"

-------------------------------------------------------------

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_CHECK_NO_SERVER`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reason:
    The configuration regarding the server is missing.

Solution:
    Ensure that the server is configured.

.. seealso::

   :doc:`connect`

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_CHECK_CERT_READ_EXCEPTION`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reason:
    An unhandled error happened when trying to read the existing

>     :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` certificate.
```

Solution:
    Ensure that the :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` certificate file is readable.

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_NO_CREDENTIAL`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reason:
    The contract and/or database :abbr:`UUID (Universal Unique Identifier)` is missing.

Solution:
    Ensure that both values are configured as intended.

>     To modify them, go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page, then navigate to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To modify them, go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page, and navigate to
```

>     :guilabel:`Credential`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :guilabel:`Credential`.
```

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_REQUEST_EXCEPTION`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reason:
    An unexpected error happened when the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box tried to reach

>     `<https://www.odoo.com>`__. The causes are likely related to the network
>     infrastructure/configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `<https://www.odoo.com>`__. The causes are likely due to the network
    infrastructure/configuration:
```

     - The :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box does not have access to internet.
     - The network does not allow the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box to communicate with
       `<https://www.odoo.com>`__.

>        This may be due to network devices preventing the communication ( firewalls, etc.) or network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       This may be due to network devices preventing the communication ( firewalls, etc.) or the network
```

       configuration (:abbr:`VPN (Virtual Private Network)`, etc.).

    .. warning::

>         Consult with your system or network administrator if this issue should arise.
>         As this error code depends on the network infrastructure, it goes beyond support service
>         scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Consult with your system or network administrator should this issue arise. This error code depends on the network infrastructure and goes beyond Odoo support's service
        scope.
```

        .. seealso::
           :doc:`../../../../services/support/what_can_i_expect`

    .. note::
        More information regarding the error that occurred can be found in, the full request
        exception details on the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box logs.

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_REQUEST_STATUS`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reason:
    The IoT-box was able to reached `<https://www.odoo.com>`__ but receive an unusual
    `response HTTP response status codes
    <https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status>`__.

    This error code will also give the HTTP response status codes. For example, if the error reads
    `ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_REQUEST_STATUS 404` it means that the page returned a 404 error, which is
    the "Page Not Found" code.

Solution:

>     Check if `<https://www.odoo.com>`__ is down using a web browser, it's possible that is is down
>     due to maintenance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Check if `<https://www.odoo.com>`__ is down using a web browser, it's possible that it is down
    due to maintenance.
```

     - If :menuselection:`Odoo.com` is down due to maintenance, unfortunately there is nothing that
       can be done but instead wait for it to recover.
     - If :menuselection:`Odoo.com` is not down due to maintenance, we invite you to open a
       `support ticket <https://www.odoo.com/help>`__ on the matter. Ensure that the 3 digits status
       code next to the code error is included in the support ticket.

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_REQUEST_NO_RESULT`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reason:
    The :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box was able to reached `<https://www.odoo.com>`__ but it
    refused to deliver the :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` certificate.

Solution:

>     Ensure that the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box and database are eligible:
>     `Internet of Things (IoT) eligibility`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Ensure that the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box and database are eligible for a certificate:
    `Internet of Things (IoT) eligibility`_
```

> .. _https_certificate_iot:

Reviewer 3: internal references should have an app name prefix, see https://www.odoo.com/documentation/15.0/contributing/documentation/rst_guidelines.html#prefix-hyperlink-targets-with-application-names

=======================
HTTPS certificate (IoT)
=======================

What is HTTPS?
==============

*Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure* (HTTPS) is the secure version of *Hypertext Transfer Protocol*
(HTTP), which is the primary protocol used to send data back and forth between a web browser and a
website. :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` is encrypted in order to increase the
security of data transfer.

:abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` uses an encryption protocol to encrypt
communications. The protocol is called *Transport Layer Security* (TLS), although formerly it was
known as *Secure Sockets Layer* (SSL).

:abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` occurs based upon the transmission of :abbr:`TLS
(Transport Layer Security)`/:abbr:`SSL (Secure Sockets Layer)` certificates, which verify that a
particular provider is who they say they are.

.. note::
   In this documentation and throughout Odoo the term "HTTPS certificate" will be used to define the

>    fact that the SSL certificate is valid and allows a :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol

Reviewer 3: add :abbr: tag for SSL

   Secure)` connection.

> 

Reviewer 3: remove extra line

Why is it needed?
=================

In order to communicate with certain network devices (in particular for payment terminals), the
usage of :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` is mandatory. If the :abbr:`HTTPS
(Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` certificate isn't valid, some devices won't be able to
interact with the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box.

> 

Reviewer 3: remove extra line

How to obtain a Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) certificate
======================================================================

The generation of the :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` certificate is automatic.

> The :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box will send a specific request to `<https://www.odoo.com>`__

Reviewer 3: external hyperlinks only need a single underscore after the target, see: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/15.0/contributing/documentation/rst_guidelines.html#use-single-underscore-suffixes-for-hyperlink-references

(This correction repeats throughout the doc)

which will send back the :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` certificate if the
:abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box and database are eligible.

> 

Reviewer 3: Adding a reference here, used within the Troubleshooting section

Internet of Things (IoT) eligibility
------------------------------------

 #. The database should be a **production** instance.

>     The database instance should not be a copy, a duplicate, a staging or a development environment.

Reviewer 3: Line broke too early, can break at `a ⤵️ duplicate...`

 #. The Odoo subscription must:

    - Have an :guilabel:`IoT Box Subscription` line.
    - Be in progress.

    If the subscription is linked to a `<https://www.odoo.com>`__ portal user check the information
    on the portal subscription page.

>     .. figure:: https_certificate_iot/sub_example_in_progress.png

Reviewer 3: Media file names should be hyphenated (no underscores), see: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/15.0/contributing/documentation/rst_guidelines.html#use-single-underscore-suffixes-for-hyperlink-references

(This is repeated throughout the doc)

This image was also too wide, reduce width to the recommended 768px wide.

        :align: center
        :alt: Odoo.com portal subscriptions filtered by "in progress".

        In this case, both subscriptions are considered "in progress" as the
        :guilabel:`Filter By: In Progress` was used

    .. note::
        If the subscription is in question, contact the database's Account Manager or Partner
        regarding the matter.

Troubleshooting Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) certificate errors
=============================================================================

If anything goes wrong during the process of the "HTTPS certificate" generation or reception, a
specific error will code be given on the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page.

> 

Reviewer 3: Remove extra line

    (Internet of Things)` box home page, and navigate to :guilabel:`Credential`.

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_REQUEST_EXCEPTION`
--------------------------------------

Reason:
    An unexpected error happened when the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box tried to reach
    `<https://www.odoo.com>`__. The causes are likely due to the network
    infrastructure/configuration:

     - The :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box does not have access to internet.
     - The network does not allow the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box to communicate with
       `<https://www.odoo.com>`__. This may be due to network devices preventing the communication
       (firewalls, etc.) or the network configuration (:abbr:`VPN (Virtual Private Network)`,
       etc.).

    .. warning::
        Consult with your system or network administrator should this issue arise. This error code
        depends on the network infrastructure and goes beyond Odoo support's service scope.

        .. seealso::
           :doc:`../../../../services/support/what_can_i_expect`

    .. note::
        More information regarding the error that occurred can be found in, the full request

>         exception details which are in the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box logs.

Reviewer 3: to keep consistent format with the Reason & Solution content blocks, add a Solution block for this error and move the warning admonition (that states the solution is to contact a system or network admin) into the Solution. 

Also, as I said earlier, a .. seealso:: in an admonition block could be better represented as a doc reference within the text.

    This error code will also give the HTTP response status codes. For example, if the error reads
    `ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_REQUEST_STATUS 404` it means that the page returned a 404 error, which is
    the "Page Not Found" code.

Solution:
    Check if `<https://www.odoo.com>`__ is down using a web browser, it's possible that it is down
    due to maintenance.

     - If `<https://www.odoo.com>`__ is down due to maintenance, unfortunately there is nothing that
       can be done but instead wait for it to recover.
     - If `<https://www.odoo.com>`__ is not down due to maintenance, open a
       `support ticket <https://www.odoo.com/help>`__ on the matter. Ensure that the 3 digits status
       code next to the code error is included in the support ticket.

`ERR_IOT_HTTPS_LOAD_REQUEST_NO_RESULT`
--------------------------------------

Reason:
    The :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box was able to reach `<https://www.odoo.com>`__ but it
    refused to deliver the :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` certificate.

Solution:
    Ensure that the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box and database are eligible for a
    certificate: `Internet of Things (IoT) eligibility`_

> .. _iot/https-certificate:

Reviewer 3: this is an unused reference, removing

.. figure:: https_certificate_iot/secured_connection.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Example of valid SSL certificate details on the browser.

   Padlock in Chrome on Windows 10 attesting the fact that the connection is secured in :abbr:`HTTPS
   (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)`

The IoT-box homepage will now display an `OK` status next to `HTTPS certificate`. The
:guilabel:`details` button next to it will give information regarding the certificate.

.. image:: https_certificate_iot/status_ok.png
   :align: center
   :alt: IoT box homepage with HTTPS certificate OK status.

Domain Name System (DNS) issue
==============================

If the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box can be accessed from its :abbr:`IP (Intrernet Protocol)`
address but not the Odoo assigned domain: `.odoo-iot.com`; then the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`
box is likely running into a :abbr:`DNS (Domain Name System)` issue. On some browsers, it will give
an error code mentioning :abbr:`DNS (Domain Name System)` (like `DNS_PROBE_FINISHED_NXDOMAIN`).

These :abbr:`DNS (Domain Name System)` issues may appear as the following in different browsers:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Chrome

>       .. figure:: https_certificate_iot/dns/dns_chrome.png

Reviewer 3: media files for a particular .rst file should only exist in a folder with the exact same name as the .rst file - there shouldn't be sub-folders. See: https://www.odoo.com/documentation/15.0/contributing/documentation/content_guidelines.html#media-files

---------------------------------------

 #. Should the router allow the :abbr:`DNS (Domain Name System)` to be manually changed on it, then
    change it to use `Google DNS <https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns>`__.
 #. If your router doesn't allow for this, then a change will need to be made on the :abbr:`DNS
    (Domain Name System)` settings of each of the devices using
    `Google DNS <https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns>`__. This will need to occur on
    **every** device that plans to interact with the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box (ex.:
    computer, tablet or phone). The individual device configuration processes can be found on the
    website of the device's manufacturer.

    .. note::
        Other :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` devices such as payment terminals likely won't need
        their :abbr:`DNS (Domain Name System)` settings changed as they are already configured with
        custom :abbr:`DNS (Domain Name System)`.

.. warning::
    Consult with your system or network administrator should this issue arise. This error code
    depends on the network infrastructure, and it goes beyond support's service scope.

>     .. seealso::

Reviewer 3: again - updating this .. seealso:: to be a doc reference
